Add serverless backup and restore document (#13168)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/backup-and-restore.md

This document describes how to back up and restore your TiDB cluster data on TiDB Cloud.

## Limitations

> ### Dedicated Tier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dedicated Tier

```

- TiDB Cloud does not support restoring tables in the `mysql` schema, including user permissions and system variables. You can use [Dumpling and Lightning](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/backup-and-restore-using-dumpling-lightning) to manually back up and restore these data.
- If you turn on and off PITR (Point-in-time Recovery) multiple times, you can only choose a time point within the recoverable range after the most recent PITR is enabled. The earlier recoverable range is not accessible.

> ### Serverless Tier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Serverless Tier

```

> - It is important to note that Serverless Tier clusters only support in-place restoring from backups. When a restore is performed, tables in the `mysql` schema are also impacted, hence any changes made in user credentials and permissions or system variables will be rolled back to the state when the backup was taken.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is important to note that Serverless Tier clusters only support in-place restoring from backups. When a restore is performed, tables in the `mysql` schema are also impacted. Hence, any changes made to user credentials and permissions or system variables will be rolled back to the state when the backup was taken.
```

- Manual backup is not yet supported at this time.
- PITR(Point-in-time Recovery) is not yet supported at this time.

> - The cluster will be unavailable during the restore process and existing connection will be cutoff. You can establish new connections once the restore is complete.
> - If TiFlash replica is enabled, it will be unavailable for a while after restore because data needs to be rebuilt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The cluster will be unavailable during the restore process, and existing connections will be terminated. You can establish new connections once the restore is complete.
- If any TiFlash replica is enabled, the replica will be unavailable for a while after the restore because data needs to be rebuilt in TiFlash.
```

## Backup

You can back up data for both [Serverless Tier](#serverless-tier) and [Dedicated Tier](#dedicated-tier).

### Serverless Tier

Automatic backups are scheduled for your Serverless Tier clusters according to the backup setting, which can reduce your loss in extreme disaster situations.

#### Automatic backup

By the automatic backup, you can back up the Serverless Tier cluster data every day at the backup time you have set. To set the backup time, perform the following steps:

> 1. Navigate to the **Backup** tab of a Serverless Tier cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Backup** page of a Serverless Tier cluster.
```

    - In **Backup Time**, schedule a start time for the daily cluster backup.

        If you do not specify a preferred backup time, TiDB Cloud assigns a default backup time, which is 2:00 AM in the time zone of the region where the cluster is located.

    - In **Backup Retention**, configure the minimum backup data retention period.

        The backup retention period must be set within a range of 7 to 90 days.

3. Click **Confirm**.

#### Delete backup files

To delete an existing backup file, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the **Backup** tab of a cluster.

2. Click **Delete** for the backup file that you want to delete.

### Dedicated Tier

TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier supports automatic backup and manual backup.

Automatic backups are scheduled for your Dedicated Tier clusters according to the backup setting, which can reduce your loss in extreme disaster situations. You can also pick a backup snapshot and restore it into a new TiDB cluster at any time.

#### Automatic backup

By the automatic backup, you can back up the Dedicated Tier cluster data every day at the backup time you have set. To set the backup time, perform the following steps:

> 1. Navigate to the **Backup** tab of a Dedicated Tier cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Backup** page of a Dedicated Tier cluster.
```

> **Note:**
>
> At present, backup and restore functionality is subject to certain limitations:
>
> For [Dedicated Tier Clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#dedicated-tier)
>
> - TiDB Cloud does not support restoring tables in the `mysql` schema, including user permissions and system variables. You can use [Dumpling and Lightning](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/backup-and-restore-using-dumpling-lightning) to manually back up and restore these data.
> - If you turn on and off PITR (Point-in-time Recovery) multiple times, you can only choose a time point within the recoverable range after the most recent PITR is enabled. The earlier recoverable range is not accessible.
>
> For [Serverless Tier Clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#dedicated-tier)
>

> > - It is important to note that Serverless Tier clusters only support in-place restoring from backups. When a restore is performed, tables in the `mysql` schema are also impacted, hence any changes made in user permission or system variables will be rolled back to the state when the backup was taken.

Reviewer 3: Shall we specially note that the change on password will also be rolled back ?

@haojinming is working on the feature that restart the TiDB nodes during restoration. I think we can also mention here when it's ready.

>
> For [Dedicated Tier Clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#dedicated-tier)
>
> - TiDB Cloud does not support restoring tables in the `mysql` schema, including user permissions and system variables. You can use [Dumpling and Lightning](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/backup-and-restore-using-dumpling-lightning) to manually back up and restore these data.
> - If you turn on and off PITR (Point-in-time Recovery) multiple times, you can only choose a time point within the recoverable range after the most recent PITR is enabled. The earlier recoverable range is not accessible.
>
> For [Serverless Tier Clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#dedicated-tier)
>
> - It is important to note that Serverless Tier clusters only support in-place restoring from backups. When a restore is performed, tables in the `mysql` schema are also impacted, hence any changes made in user credentials and permissions or system variables will be rolled back to the state when the backup was taken.
> - Manual backup is not yet supported at this time.
> - PITR(Point-in-time Recovery) is not yet supported at this time.

> > - If TiFlash replica is enabled, it will be unavailable for a while after restore because data needs to be synchronized from TiKV.

Reviewer 3: Nit:

```suggestion
> - If TiFlash replica is enabled, it will be unavailable for a while after restore because data needs to be rebuilt.
```

"needs to be synchronized from TiKV" looks a little confused to me, as TiFlash is synchronizing from TiKV all the time.

Author: I see, it's already updated.

> > - If TiFlash replica is enabled, it will be unavailable for a while after restore because data needs to be synchronized from TiKV.

Reviewer: This note is too long. We can move it to a separate section titled `## Limitation`

> - If you turn on and off PITR (Point-in-time Recovery) multiple times, you can only choose a time point within the recoverable range after the most recent PITR is enabled. The earlier recoverable range is not accessible.
>
> For [Serverless Tier Clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#dedicated-tier)
>
> - It is important to note that Serverless Tier clusters only support in-place restoring from backups. When a restore is performed, tables in the `mysql` schema are also impacted, hence any changes made in user credentials and permissions or system variables will be rolled back to the state when the backup was taken.
> - Manual backup is not yet supported at this time.
> - PITR(Point-in-time Recovery) is not yet supported at this time.
> - The Serverless Tier Cluster will be unavailable during the Restore process and existing connection will be cutoff. You can rebuild connection once the restore is complete.
> - If TiFlash replica is enabled, it will be unavailable for a while after restore because data needs to be rebuilt.

## Backup

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can back up data for both [Serverless Tier](#serverless-tier) and [Dedicated Tier](#dedicated-tier).

```

> - It is important to note that Serverless Tier clusters only support in-place restoring from backups. When a restore is performed, tables in the `mysql` schema are also impacted, hence any changes made in user credentials and permissions or system variables will be rolled back to the state when the backup was taken.
> - Manual backup is not yet supported at this time.
> - PITR(Point-in-time Recovery) is not yet supported at this time.

> > - The Serverless Tier Cluster will be unavailable during the Restore process and existing connection will be cutoff. You can rebuild connection once the restore is complete.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> - The cluster will be unavailable during the restore process and existing connections will be cutoff. You can rebuild connections once the restore is completed.
```

4. Click **Confirm**. Then your cluster data is backed up.

#### Delete backup files

To delete an existing backup file, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the **Backup** tab of a cluster.

2. Click **Delete** for the backup file that you want to delete.

#### Delete a running backup job

To delete a running backup job, it is similar as [**Delete backup files**](#delete-backup-files).

1. Navigate to the **Backup** tab of a cluster.

2. Click **Delete** for the backup file that is in the **Pending** or **Running** state.

#### Best practices for backup

- It is recommended that you perform backup operations at cluster idle time to minimize the impact on business.
- Do not run the manual backup while importing data, or during cluster scaling.
- After you delete a cluster, the existing manual backup files will be retained until you manually delete them, or your account is closed. Automatic backup files will be retained for 31 days from the date of cluster deletion. You need to delete the backup files accordingly.

## Restore

### Serverless Tier

> TiDB Cloud's Serverless Tier only supports in-place restoration. To restore your Serverless Tier cluster from a backup, follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud Serverless Tier only supports in-place restoration. To restore your Serverless Tier cluster from a backup, follow these steps:
```

> 1. Navigate to the **Backup** tab of a cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Backup** page of a cluster.
```

2. Click **Restore**. This will open the **Restore** window.

    1. Choose a backup from the **Backup Time** drop-down list.
    2. Click **Confirm** to begin the restoration process.

>    After initiating the restore process, the cluster status changes to **Restoring**. The cluster will be unavailable during the restore process and existing connection will be cutoff. Once the restore process completes successfully, you can access the cluster detail page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   After initiating the restore process, the cluster status changes to **Restoring**. The cluster will be unavailable during the restore process and existing connections will be terminated. Once the restore process completes successfully, you can access the cluster as usual.
```

4. Click **Confirm**. Then your cluster data is backed up.

#### Delete backup files

To delete an existing backup file, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the **Backup** tab of a cluster.

2. Click **Delete** for the backup file that you want to delete.

#### Delete a running backup job

To delete a running backup job, it is similar as [**Delete backup files**](#delete-backup-files).

1. Navigate to the **Backup** tab of a cluster.

2. Click **Delete** for the backup file that is in the **Pending** or **Running** state.

#### Best practices for backup

- It is recommended that you perform backup operations at cluster idle time to minimize the impact on business.
- Do not run the manual backup while importing data, or during cluster scaling.
- After you delete a cluster, the existing manual backup files will be retained until you manually delete them, or your account is closed. Automatic backup files will be retained for 31 days from the date of cluster deletion. You need to delete the backup files accordingly.

## Restore

### Serverless Tier

> TiDB Cloud's Serverless Tier only supports in-place restoration. To restore your Serverless Tier cluster from a backup, please follow the steps given below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud's Serverless Tier only supports in-place restoration. To restore your Serverless Tier cluster from a backup, follow these steps:
```

#### Delete a running backup job

To delete a running backup job, it is similar as [**Delete backup files**](#delete-backup-files).

1. Navigate to the **Backup** tab of a cluster.

2. Click **Delete** for the backup file that is in the **Pending** or **Running** state.

#### Best practices for backup

- It is recommended that you perform backup operations at cluster idle time to minimize the impact on business.
- Do not run the manual backup while importing data, or during cluster scaling.
- After you delete a cluster, the existing manual backup files will be retained until you manually delete them, or your account is closed. Automatic backup files will be retained for 31 days from the date of cluster deletion. You need to delete the backup files accordingly.

## Restore

### Serverless Tier

TiDB Cloud's Serverless Tier only supports in-place restoration. To restore your Serverless Tier cluster from a backup, please follow the steps given below:

1. Navigate to the **Backup** tab of a cluster.

2. Click **Restore**. This will open the **Restore** window.

    1. Choose a backup from the **Backup Time** drop-down list.
    2. Click **Confirm** to begin the restoration process.

>    After initiating the restore process, the cluster status changes to **Restoring**. Once the restore process completes successfully, you can access the cluster detail page.

Reviewer: 这里是否需要加一个 warning，说明 restore 期间集群不可用？

Author: 增加了一下，PTAL

> **Note:**
>
> You cannot restore a deleted cluster to any point in time. You can only select an automatic or manual backup to restore.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
